README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Winternight5/Sidenote.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Winternight5/Sidenote)

# Sidenote
### Notes and To-do List web application.

The application’s main features will enable users to simply append tasks onto their to-do list. Users are able to create their own account, and persisting their notes/to-do lists upon login. Using python language and database (SQLite / Postges SQL for heroku) as a backend to track user login data, which would permit user registration when an account does not already exist, and deny it when one does. Using HTML, Javascript (JQuery), and CSS (Bootstrap / MaterializeCSS) as front-end to make the user interface (UI) very elegant and appealing, implementing features such as customizable colorful backgrounds via a toggle menu on the page, etc.


[Live Demo - http://sidenotex.herokuapp.com/](http://sidenotex.herokuapp.com/)


## Getting Started

Make sure you have Python version 3.6 with pip installed on your computer to setup a localhost web server for development purpose.

More information can be found here:

[How do you set up a local testing server?]( https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/set_up_a_local_testing_server)

### Prerequisites

Python 3.6 with pip

Required packages: 
1.	Flask
2.	Flask-Heroku
3.	Flask-Login
4.	Flask-SQLAlchemy
5.	Flask-WTF
6.	Gunicorn (only required on Heroku)
7.	Itsdangerous
8.	Jinja2
9.	MarkupSafe
10.	psycopg2 binary (only required on Heroku)
11.	SQLAlchemy
12.	Werkzeug
13.	WTForms

See the most updated complete list [requirements.txt](https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4/blob/master/requirements.txt)

### Installing

Clone this git repo then install the required packages. 

To install individual package, use the terminal: *(For Window, make sure to “Run as administrator”)*

```
pip install Flask
```
For Mac:
```
pip3 install Flask
```
And repeat until all required packages are installed.


## Running Test Cases

Test cases can be found in highest level of the app folder: test_main.py

### Test Cases Break down 

To ensure various python functions and database works properly, we need to use data validation and Back-end testing.

One example:
```
test_new_user(new_user)
``` 
Database testing is checking the schema, and table of User database by insertion of new user


Another example:
```
 test_login(new_user)
```
Python testing is checking the login function to ensure authentication works using Flask-Login package


## Deployment

This repo is built with Heroku package and is ready for deployment. Please see Heroku official website for more information.
[GitHub Integration (Heroku GitHub Deploys)]( https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/github-integration)


## Built With

* [Python](https://www.python.org/) - An interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language.
* [JQuery](https://www.jquery.com) - A fast, small, and feature-rich JavaScript library.
* [MaterializeCSS](https://materializecss.com/) - A modern responsive front-end framework based on Material Design
* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com) - Responsive, mobile-first projects on the web with the world's most popular front-end component library


## Authors

* **Tai Huynh** - *Initial work* - [Team4 - Sidenote]( https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4)
* **William Nguyen** - *Initial work* - [Team4 - Sidenote]( https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4)
* **Brian Tamsing** - *Initial work* - [Team4 - Sidenote]( https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4)
* **Nate Garza** - *Initial work* - [Team4 - Sidenote]( https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4)

List of [contributors]( https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4/graphs/contributors)


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Added Documentation category to README

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Winternight5/Sidenote.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Winternight5/Sidenote)

# Sidenote
### Notes and To-do List web application.

The application’s main features will enable users to simply append tasks onto their to-do list. Users are able to create their own account, and persisting their notes/to-do lists upon login. Using python language and database (SQLite / Postges SQL for heroku) as a backend to track user login data, which would permit user registration when an account does not already exist, and deny it when one does. Using HTML, Javascript (JQuery), and CSS (Bootstrap / MaterializeCSS) as front-end to make the user interface (UI) very elegant and appealing, implementing features such as customizable colorful backgrounds via a toggle menu on the page, etc.


[Live Demo - http://sidenotex.herokuapp.com/](http://sidenotex.herokuapp.com/)


## Getting Started

Make sure you have Python version 3.6 with pip installed on your computer to setup a localhost web server for development purpose.

More information can be found here:

[How do you set up a local testing server?]( https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Common_questions/set_up_a_local_testing_server)

### Prerequisites

Python 3.6 with pip

Required packages: 
1.	Flask
2.	Flask-Heroku
3.	Flask-Login
4.	Flask-SQLAlchemy
5.	Flask-WTF
6.	Gunicorn (only required on Heroku)
7.	Itsdangerous
8.	Jinja2
9.	MarkupSafe
10.	psycopg2 binary (only required on Heroku)
11.	SQLAlchemy
12.	Werkzeug
13.	WTForms

See the most updated complete list [requirements.txt](https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4/blob/master/requirements.txt)

### Installing

Clone this git repo then install the required packages. 

To install individual package, use the terminal: *(For Window, make sure to “Run as administrator”)*

```
pip install Flask
```
For Mac:
```
pip3 install Flask
```
And repeat until all required packages are installed.


## Running Test Cases

Test cases can be found in highest level of the app folder: test_main.py

### Test Cases Break down 

To ensure various python functions and database works properly, we need to use data validation and Back-end testing.

One example:
```
test_new_user(new_user)
``` 
Database testing is checking the schema, and table of User database by insertion of new user


Another example:
```
 test_login(new_user)
```
Python testing is checking the login function to ensure authentication works using Flask-Login package


## Deployment

This repo is built with Heroku package and is ready for deployment. Please see Heroku official website for more information.
[GitHub Integration (Heroku GitHub Deploys)]( https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/github-integration)


## Documentation
For more information regarding how to navigate or code implementation please go to 
```
docs/_build/html/index.rst
```
## Built With

* [Python](https://www.python.org/) - An interpreted, high-level, general-purpose programming language.
* [JQuery](https://www.jquery.com) - A fast, small, and feature-rich JavaScript library.
* [MaterializeCSS](https://materializecss.com/) - A modern responsive front-end framework based on Material Design
* [Bootstrap](https://getbootstrap.com) - Responsive, mobile-first projects on the web with the world's most popular front-end component library


## Authors

* **Tai Huynh** - *Initial work* - [Team4 - Sidenote]( https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4)
* **William Nguyen** - *Initial work* - [Team4 - Sidenote]( https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4)
* **Brian Tamsing** - *Initial work* - [Team4 - Sidenote]( https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4)
* **Nate Garza** - *Initial work* - [Team4 - Sidenote]( https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4)

List of [contributors]( https://github.com/Winternight5/Team4/graphs/contributors)


## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
